silver prefix sum revamp changes (#6011)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/3_Silver/Prefix_Sums.mdx

frequency: 3
---

## Resources

<Resources>
	<Resource source="IUSACO" title="11 - Prefix Sums">
		Source of this module
	</Resource>
	<Resource source="CPH" title="9.1 - Sum Queries">
		Brief description
	</Resource>
	<Resource source="PAPS" title="11.2.1 - Prefix Precomputation">
		Motivation and implementation
	</Resource>
</Resources>

<!-- if CPI video, add it in using YouTube component -->

<YouTube id = "f0bfiuDjq9A"/>

## Introduction

Prefix sums are a technique used to precompute the cumulative sums of an array to quickly find the sum of any subarray.
Using $\mathcal{O}(N)$ precomputation time, subsequent queries can be found in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time.
This technique can also be generalized to invertible operations,

> such as [bitwise xor](https://usaco.guide/silver/intro-bitwise#xor-operation) or multiplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefix sums are a technique used to quickly calculate the sum of any subarray.
By precomputing cumulative sums in $\mathcal{O}(N)$ time, subsequent queries can be computed in $\mathcal{O}(1)$ time.
This technique can be generalized to invertible operations,
such as [bitwise XOR](https://usaco.guide/silver/intro-bitwise#xor-operation).
```

note: while multiplication technically applies, i think it's not that common since it overflows super fast
